--- Slide 1 ---
Overview
Integrated project: Access to drinking water

--- Slide 2 ---

Overview
The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are an ongoing global call to action to end poverty, ensure prosperity and peace for all people, and protect our planet.

There are 17 goals relating to poverty, health, education, basic services, inequality, climate, peace, and partnership.
UNITED NATIONS
SDGs

--- Slide 3 ---
Integrated project: Access to drinking water

UN SDG 6
Due to changes in our climate, droughts are becoming more prevalent and water supplies are decreasing worldwide. This not only affects access to drinking water but also sanitation and hygiene, which often results in unnecessary diseases and death.
In order to ensure greater access to water and sanitation, communities across the world need to assist each other in developing and managing water resources.
United NationsSustainable Development Goal 6
Clean water and sanitation
Ensure availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation for all.

--- Slide 4 ---

You are provided data from the WHO/UNICEF Joint Monitoring Programme for water supply, sanitation, and hygiene (JMP).
Integrated project: Access to drinking water
Integrated project overview
01.
02.
Understanding the data
Transforming the data
Project overview
MCQs
In this project, we’ll investigate access to safe and affordable drinking water, focusing on inequalities inservice levels betweendifferent countriesand regions.
You are required to analyze the data using Google Sheets, gather insights, and answer the questions regarding access to safe and affordable drinking water.
MCQs

--- Slide 5 ---

WHO/UNICEF JMP data overview
The JMP dataset estimates household access to drinking water services between 2000 and 2020 to assess progress toward achieving the sixth SDG. 
Estimates on the use of water (2000 – 2020)
Country or area
The specific country or area the values are estimated for.
Year
The specific year the values are estimated for.
Population
The estimated population size in thousands for the specific country and year.
% Urban
The estimated percentage share of the population living in urban areas.
Service levels
The estimated national, rural, and urban percentage share of a specific level of access to drinking water services.
Integrated project: Access to drinking water

--- Slide 6 ---
WHO/UNICEF JMP data overview
The dataset uses service ladders to benchmark and compare access to drinking water across different countries. The ladder defines five different service levels.

Integrated project: Access to drinking water

--- Slide 7 ---
What you need to do
There are two parts to this integrated project. You need to import and clean data, create new features and visualizations, interpret the results, and answer the multiple-choice questions.

In part one, we’ll answer questions like:
How do the world population estimates compare to the provided dataset populations?
How does the urban population share compare to the rural population?
What is the tendency and spread of the different water access features?
How do these measures of water access compare across different types of areas?
What does the national access to water look like based on national population size?
What does urban access to water look like based on urban population size?
What does the rural access look like?
What is the effect of national population size and urbanization on GNI and water access?
After working through this first part of the project, you will have to answer 10 multiple-choice questions. 
Integrated project: Access to drinking water

--- Slide 8 ---
What you need to do

In part two, we’ll answer questions like:
How does the imported dataset differ from the Estimates on the Use of Water (2020) dataset? 
Which years are represented within the dataset?
What is the average year difference per country? 
What is the Annual Rates Change (ARC) for the national, rural, and urban areas per country?
What is the average of the different ARCs for all countries?
How does access to basic water change over time for different areas?
How does the ARC differ between rural and urban populations?
How does the ARC compare across different regions?
How does the national population size influence the ARC?
After working through this second part of the project, you will have to answer an additional 10 multiple-choice questions. 
Integrated project: Access to drinking water
